---
layout: post
title: What I use to store information and keep track of things
---

In my constant desire for more simplicity I'd like to reduce the variety of programs and ways all this information is managed. However I don't want to get too _obsessed_...

For example, I like to unload my thoughts on whatever I have at hand in the moment such as my journal in Google Docs if I only have my phone. If I left my home without my phone I prefer the physical bullet journal. If I want to write extensively about something I prefer the Docs journal from my PC where I can type very quickly. I prefer this versatility against getting obsessed over using only _one_ medium.

## Physical [Bullet journal](https://bulletjournal.com/)
I like to step away from screens considering my job (web dev) and some of my hobbies (reading mostly in a Kindle, YouTube, videogames...)
- Track tasks and habits, birthdays, future events, etc. As an agenda, basically
- Occasionally to vent or write down any kind of thought

## [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/):
- Goals
- Recipes: mainly because I like to tag them with their ingredients and then search from what I have available
- Shopping lists
- Written pieces that I want to keep easy accesible separate from journal
- Media I want to watch/read/etc.
- Travel plans

## Google Drive
- Finances (Google Sheets)
- Private journaling: 
    - In a Word document which started offline in 2017 but afterwards moved to a Google Docs file so I could have somewhere to write personal stuff from any device I had at hand (such as my cellphone or my other laptops). I really would like to find a way to avoid using Google Drive for this but without adding a new app/service/program to my "stack", so to say. As well as convert it all to [plain text](https://sive.rs/plaintext) and format accordingly since it is probably _the_ document I want to preserve for all my life.
- Personal, work and study documents
- Books and their highlights

## Google Calendar
- Recurring events such as birthdays and activities (exercise, work)
- Special events (recitals, holidays)

## Google Photos (self explanatory)

## [Calibre](https://calibre-ebook.com/)
Sync books to my Kindle and sometimes read from my personal desktop PC