src/content/blog/en/javascript-date.mdx, before:

---
title: "Dates in JavaScript"
tags: ["tech"]
pubDate: 2024-06-27
draft: true
---

import Date from "../../../components/react/DateComponent";

While migrating my personal website to Astro I added a tiny javascript function to calculate my age in the about page, just because I wanted it's a, relative, free world and is something I wanted to do when I was using Jekyll but for some reason or another found it too tedious to mix JavaScript and markdown files.

While playing with the `Date` object I realized i never got the real hang of how dates work in javascript. Always had to google more than I prefer to admit and read the docs almost from scratch every time

So enough was enough so I wrote this for my better understanding and in the hope of helping others that struggled as I did with dates.

>As a sidenote, UTC stands for [Coordinated Universal Time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) which will be used some times throughout the article. A standard used for determined time worldwide. 

## The Date object

They are represented internally by a single number, a _timestamp_.

Which represents the miliseconds since the [epoch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time), January 1st 1970 at 00:00:00.

From this date object we could get:

1. The UTC time
2. Local time
3. The timestamp itself
   
>The timezone is determined by the user's device, it is **not** stored in the `Date` object

## What can we do with the Date object?
-   calculate someone's birthday

## What can we do with more than one?
### Subtraction
### Sum
Try to guess what will happen if we do

`new Date('1000-01-01') + new Date()`
-   calculate how many months/years/days between the two

## Playground

<Date client:visible/>

Commit message:

add date cheatsheet post without text content

src/content/blog/en/javascript-date.mdx, after:

---
title: "Dates in JavaScript"
tags: ["tech"]
pubDate: 2024-06-27
draft: true
---

import Date from "../../../components/react/DateComponent";

While migrating my personal website to Astro I added a tiny javascript function to calculate my age in the about page. Just because I wanted to, it's a relative free world and was something I wanted to do while using Jekyll but for some reason or another found it too tedious to mix JavaScript and markdown files.

I realized i never got the real hang of how dates work in javascript. Always had to google more than I prefer to admit and read the docs almost from scratch every time.

Enough was enough so I wrote this for my better understanding and in the hope of helping others that struggled or struggle as I did with dates.

> As a sidenote, UTC stands for [Coordinated Universal Time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) which will be used some times throughout the article. A standard used for determined time worldwide.

## The Date object

They are represented internally by a single number, a _timestamp_.

Which represents the miliseconds since the [epoch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time), January 1st 1970 at 00:00:00.

From this date object we could get:

1. The UTC time
2. Local time
3. The timestamp

> The timezone is determined by the user's device, it is **not** stored in the `Date` object

For example if we do `const myDate = new Date()` we get them like this:

```javascript
myDate.toUTCString(); // UTC time
myDate.toLocaleString(); // local time
myDate.getTime(); // timestamp time
```

## What can we do with the Date object?

-   calculate someone's birthday

## What can we do with more than one?

### Subtraction

### Sum

Try to guess what will happen if we do

`new Date('1000-01-01') + new Date()`

-   calculate how many months/years/days between the two

## Playground & cheatsheet

Write a [valid date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/Date#parameters) or pick one with the inputs:

<Date client:visible />
