---
layout: post
title: What I use to store information and keep track of things
---

Writing this helped me get a big picture on how spread or narrow my focus is on how I store/track certain aspects of my life and information related to me.

In my constant desire for more simplicity I'd like to reduce the variety of programs and ways all this information is managed.

However I don't want to get too obsessed either...

For example, I like to dump my thoughts on whatever I have at hand such as my journal in Google Docs if I only have my phone.

If I left my home without my phone I prefer the physical bullet journal.

## Physical [Bullet journal](https://bulletjournal.com/)
I like to step away from screens just a little bit considering my job and some of my hobbies
- Track tasks and habits, birthdays, future events, etc.
- As an agenda, basically
- Occasionally to vent or write down any kind of thought just like my Word digital journal in my Google Drive

## [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/):
- Goals
- Recipes: mainly because I like to tag them with their ingredients and then search from what I have available
- Shopping lists
- Written pieces that I want to keep separate from journal
- Media I want to watch/read/etc.

## Google Drive
- Finances (Google Sheets)
- Private journaling: In a Word document which started offline in 2017 but afterwards moved to a Google Docs document so I could have somewhere to write personalstuff from any device I had at hand (such as my cellphone or my other laptops). I really would like to find a way to avoid using Google Drive for this but withoutadding a new app/service/program to my "stack", so to say. As well as convert it all to [plain text](https://sive.rs/plaintext) and format accordingly since it isprobably _the_ document I want to preserve for all my life.
- Personal/work/study documents
- Books and their highlights

## Google Calendar
- Recurring events such as birthdays and activities (exercise, work)
- Special events (recitals, holidays)

## Google Photos (self explanatory)

## [Calibre](https://calibre-ebook.com/)
Sync books to my Kindle and sometimes read from my personal desktop PC